Binary distributions can be found from the [Releases page](https://github.com/fredher/tchecker/releases). The instructions below are for installation from the sources. Please, notice that these instructions have only been tested on Linux (Ubuntu and Debian) and Mac OS X. The installation instructions below may not work for other operating systems. Please contact us in case of problem.

# Requirements

TChecker depends on several softwares and libraries listed below. Linux users can install most softwares using the packaging system shipped along with their distribution. Mac OS X users can install the required software using an external packaging system like [Brew](https://brew.sh/) or [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/).

* a C++ compiler with decent C++17 support (Clang >= 3.6 or GNU g++ >= 6
should work. Apple LLVM >= 10.0.0 works)
* CMake (>= 2.8)
* flex (>= 2.5.35)
* bison (>= 3.0.4)
* The Boost library (>= 1.65.0 -- probably works with earlier versions)
* Doxygen (>= 1.8.15 -- probably works with earlier versions)
* Catch2 (>= 2.7.0)

Catch2 can be obtained from [Catch2 github repository](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2). Please, refer to Catch2 tutorial for [installation instructions](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/blob/master/docs/cmake-integration.md#installing-catch2-from-git-repository).

# Building and installing TChecker

We assume that all dependencies have been successfully installed.

## Clone the repository:

```
git clone https://github.com/fredher/tchecker.git
```
This will create a directory `tchecker` in the current directory, that contains a fully functional local clone of the project.

## Configure the build

We use `cmake` to build the project. We recommend to build TChecker out of the source directory. This allows to easily remove the files generated by `cmake` and by the compiler. This also allows `cmake` to build a project for your favorite IDE out of the source directory. To that purpose, create a build directory:

```
mkdir build
cd build
```

Then, the configuration depends on your system.

### Linux users

Run the following command to configure the build:

```
cmake ../tchecker -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path/to/install
```

In the command above, `/path/to/install` shall be replaced by the desired installation path. Please, refer to [Configuration options](https://github.com/fredher/tchecker/wiki/Installation-of-TChecker/_edit#configuration-options) for details.

### Mac OS X users

The version of `bison` that is shipped with Apple development tools is quite old, and it does not support some of the features required by TChecker. Mac OS X users will need to install a newer version using MacPorts or Brew (or another packaging system). Then, run the following command to configure the build:

```
cmake ../tchecker -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path/to/install -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/path/to/bison
```

In the command above, `/path/to/bison` shall be replaced by the actual path to the newer `bison` executable. And `/path/to/install` shall be replaced by the desired installation path. Please, refer to [Configuration options](https://github.com/fredher/tchecker/wiki/Installation-of-TChecker/_edit#configuration-options) for details.

### Configuration options

- `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` specifies the path where TChecker shall be installed. Default directory is `/usr/local`. You may need administrator privileges to write into `/usr/local`. Hence, it may be relevant to install TChecker in your account. For instance, to install in directory `local` in your account: `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/local`.

- `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` specifies to build a `Debug` or a `Release` version of TChecker. The difference is that the `Debug` version runs many checks. It is safer but *a lot* slower. We recommend to build a `Release` version.

- if `cmake` fails to find some of the dependencies, you may need to specify the directories to the software using option `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` and `CMAKE_MODULE_PATH`.

- you may build a project for you favorite IDE adding option `-G my_ide` to the command above (`my_ide` should be replaced by your favorite IDE, see the output of `cmake -h` for available generators).

## Building and installing TChecker

The commands below build TChecker and its documentation in the `build` directory, and then install TChecker in the chosen installation directory (i.e. the directory specified with option `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`).

```
make -j5
make doc
make install
```

Option `-j5` launches 5 parallel compilation jobs. The value 5 shall be adapted to match the number of CPU cores on your system.

The installation procedure creates four directories: `bin`, `lib`, `include` and `share/doc/tchecker/html` in the installation directory. The TChecker tools can be found in directory `bin` (see [Using TChecker](https://github.com/fredher/tchecker/wiki/Using-TChecker)). The development tools are provided in the other directories: the headers in `include`, the library in `lib`, and the Doxygen documentation in `share/doc/tchecker/html`.
